and welcome back to a fresh
business show i'm your host sam dunning
co-owner over at webwish uk.com and
today i'm joined by todd capone todd is
author of the best-selling book the
transparency sale he's also a speaker
and workshop leader over as principal of
stell's melon llc todd welcome to the
show man how you doing i'm good man
thanks for having me
no worries dude so looking forward to
jumping in today we're gonna be talking
all about the power
transparency when it comes to startups
so first and foremost todd let's chuck
you straight in at the deep end as we
always do what does transplant you
really mean when it comes to business
it's well it's such a good question
because the word transparency is so
overused and some people confuse it with
authenticity or whatever but
here's
let me start with a little story about
it um because in my last role i was the
chief revenue officer of a tech company
here in chicago okay called uh power
reviews and you could probably guess
from the name power reviews
they were in the review space right so
collect and display ratings and reviews
for retailers and brands so
buy a pair of crocs or vineyard vines or
whatever
when you look at the product scroll down
and there's the reviews under it
there's a decent chance that it was
power reviews that's the engine behind
that but okay what ended up happening is
this was like 2016 2017.
we did a research study along with a
local university northwestern university
here in chicago that was just looking at
all right when a website is acting as a
salesperson what do people do right so
just a normal study but
there was three data points that came
out of it
two of them
changed my life which could happen to a
nerd like me who's like a behavioral
science nerd but um that the three data
points the first one that didn't and
when i say changed my life like i quit
my job
and i wrote a book um so the first data
point again no surprise here was that we
all read reviews today
right so 90 it was 96 percent of us read
reviews and we're buying something we
haven't bought before that's a medium to
high consideration right and like the
only surprise there was who are these
four percent that don't
but
the two data points that changed my life
number one
was that 85 percent of us go to the
negative reviews first
so we skip the fives and go right to the
fours threes twos and ones i don't know
if if that's something you do
i think
do you think that's just because we're
always skeptical like for example when
i'm looking at a new product for the uh
for amazon like before we hit record
todd we were talking about the the
lights that i use and i shared with you
that are actually just cheap like remote
control lights that are like 8 10 bucks
um but yeah i know for example if i'm
looking at a listing i'll kind of think
if there's a bunch of five stars are
these necessarily real i want to get
some more feedback i'll skip to the one
two three stars see what they've got a
about and then i'll make an
informed decision so i get where you're
going yeah exactly so the second data
point along the same lines and then i
will get to the behavioral science about
why is
when a product on a five-star review or
uh five-star scale has an average review
score between a four two and a four five
that is optimal for purchase conversion
meaning
that products that have negative reviews
right under them
help those products sell better than
products that have nothing but five-star
reviews and so to your point
you know that that's what a website's
acting as a salesperson i was thinking
all right that's interesting thinking
through exactly that the thought process
you have is just like hey i'm skeptical
when all i hear is perfect five star
why does that happen and does it apply
to human to human or b2b selling and so
i started digging into the behavioral
science research and found out the
answer is absolutely yes
and yet as a sales leader i had a big
sales team about 60 people that i've
been basically teaching to sell as
though we are perfect five star and i
thought hey listen if 85 of us want to
go to the negative first
and imperfect sells better than perfect
what would happen if we went into sales
engagements and basically played our
cards face up not to say hey listen
everybody this is why we suck like no
take it easy it's that four two to four
five like hey listen in your environment
here's a couple of things that maybe we
don't have maybe a competitor does
better than us um you know maybe there's
a risk area here and if you're gonna be
cool with that here's what you're gonna
love
and and that we we started doing that we
had a couple of
opportunities to basically lead with
hey a competitor just released something
that we don't have
and if that's going to be a big deal for
you let's vet that now before we get too
deep into this
and like magic happened
um sales cycle sped up so dramatically
that like the the buyer was actually
showing us his budget that we found that
transparency begets transparency that
when you're truly
transparent
and when i say transparent again
different than authentic to answer your
question authentic is being your true
you and what if you're a jerk um but uh
but you know transparent is about
basically with your customers with
everybody
any conversation that you would have in
an internal room you know a conference
room talking about oh we're struggling
here or this is a risk
we should be having with our customers
and we do trust builds
we help that client
or prospect predict
yeah which again speeds the sales cycle
because they have to do less homework on
their own
yep and your win rates go up
considerably because you're working the
deals you should
and more importantly you're losing the
deals that you were going to lose anyway
just a lot faster
and so that that was when like this
whole thing sparked and i was like
listen i think there's an opportunity
here i'll add one thing to this though
sure
uh and i i don't want to ramble on too
much but i'm a sales history nerd too
um so like this book for example this
one's 1916. for anybody watching like i
wish you could smell it it's uh the art
and science of selling there's a whole
chapter in this book in 1916
on honesty right so we've always known
that honesty sells better we've always
known it right and it feels better but
here's the difference and here's why i
felt i had to write this now
is because now what's changed the
proliferation of reviews and feedback on
everything we do by an experience so
20 years ago you could get away with the
mistruths and kind of hiding what you
suck at
today you can't so you might as well
figure out how to do it the right way
yeah yeah interesting points there's a
few bits and pieces i want to dive into
so
i guess let's talk a little bit more
about how this can actually be put into
play and the psychology behind it yeah
so being upfront about your flaws i'm
sure some people are tuning in and
thinking some might be thinking yeah
that sounds like a great idea others
might be thinking well i'm going to lose
a bunch of prospects potential leads all
these customers that we might be winning
deals off are going to go down the drain
why should i do that well
i guess first and foremost what what's
really the psychology i know you touched
on it a bit when we talked about kind of
amazon reviews and things like that
why do we need to be
up front straight away how is it helping
us in the long run todd by saying what's
perhaps not a great fit about our
company rather than just saying how
we're great we are
well yeah so it starts with this idea
that we as human beings
are prediction machines like literally
every minute of every day our brain is
trying to predict what's gonna happen
right and
you know like if there was a really
interesting uh research study that i
read about like when your body tells you
it's thirsty
you grab your drink you take a sip
and immediately your body tells you it's
not thirsty anymore even though that
liquid doesn't reach your bloodstream
for anywhere between 4 and 45 minutes
right and so like prediction
every purchase we're making we're trying
to predict right now we know
subconsciously
that perfection isn't possible right
perfection isn't real
and so
our brains are not able to trigger a
purchase decision until we get a a
firm prediction that we have confidence
in of the juice is going to be worth the
squeeze right
and so if all we hear about is how great
the juice is and the nutritional value
and how great it tastes but we never
learn the squeeze our brain can't
actually trigger a decision we need to
know that now the other piece of that is
that our brains we also put up something
that i've heard others call a limbic
filter so limbic is the kind of the
center of your brain right where
decisions get triggered it's the
emotional and feeling center
now
that limbic system between your ears on
the way to the limbic
we're basically resistant to influence
right that whole five star piece around
we know perfection doesn't
exist
sure we've got a little filter so all
the words coming in that are positive
great how awesome we are did i mention
how great we are are going through
basically a limbic bs filter on the way
to their brain and we have to disarm
that and that's part of the reason why
85 percent of us go to the negatives
first right is
that's the disarming mechanism for us on
our own when a website's acting as a
salesperson to be able to
now
um process the the five star the the
positives in all of this
and so that's the psychological pieces
of why that works so well and then again
that four two to four five is the
element that says hey listen we know
perfection doesn't exist
imperfection sells better
but it doesn't mean that you suck either
right if we get below that 4-2 you start
to get some questionability around
you know whether or not your solution is
actually worthy and again all of this
applies to human to human and b2b
selling
got it okay so
let's perhaps talk about some examples
of where businesses can put this into
play
should it be primarily on initial sales
conversations if we're perhaps looking
to take on our first few clients or grow
our customer base or other other
scenarios todd that you could perhaps
share
how and when we can use these these or
this technique rather to build our trust
yeah i mean i think well there's a
couple of things so first of all um
you when you think about some of the
most successful brands in the world
yeah the ikeas the costcos the southwest
i mean you know here in the us the
southwest airlines
they all suck to a certain level right
like if you've been to an ikea you know
uh you get a map when you walk in which
is always a great sign that you got hell
on earth ahead of you
yeah tell me about it find what you're
looking for there's no sales person
around you got to write down the code or
take a picture with your phone of where
it's located in the warehouse because
you've got to go get it pull the hundred
pound boxes onto a cart that doesn't
have breaks which seems like a massive
oversight go out to the parking lot jam
at tetris style into the back of your
car f-bomb your way through that you
then drive home with a souvenir injury
thinking that you left all the fun back
at the store
but then you open the box and there's
150 parts no words on the work
instructions other than the word like
svarta or whatever the like the you know
the
brand name is and then you f-bomb your
way through that you're like oh that
looks pretty good you can go get the end
tables with this bedroom set like it's
crazy but ikea the number one furniture
retailer in the world for 13 straight
years right and why
because they branded this idea that hey
listen there's certain things that we're
going to give up to be great at our core
you're going to do all that stuff
and we're going to be great at giving
you modern scandinavian design furniture
you didn't pay much for and there's
meatballs upstairs if you want them too
which are pretty great but the point
being that every one of the
organizations of everybody listening to
this
gives up something to be great at your
core and so it starts there
right it's that embracing of hey
we're not all things to all people
and when you embrace that i think
there's actually an opportunity to brand
it
so that you bring in more like a smaller
total number of leads but they're all
pre-qualified so you are ultimately
efficient in all of your selling efforts
that's number one but to your question
if you're early stage you're just
getting started like what are some of
these things that we can do because we
don't even know yet
well you know two things
number one
that's your early stage
and i'm hoping that one of the first
words that comes out of your mouth when
you're engaging with a new prospect is
to make sure that's cool with them
right and what i mean by that is you
know one of the early stage tech
companies that i work with here in
chicago
they got an inbound lead from a huge
retailer right that found them on the uh
like on a google search they were gonna
build the technology and they're like oh
you've already built it cool
and they wanted to hide this idea that
it was basically three dudes in a garage
right and i was like hey listen
before
like do you want them to um tell you
they don't want to work with a startup
now
or after you burn four months of cash
that you barely have
and they're like well obviously now
would be better if that's going to be a
problem well then you better ask right
and so it was hey listen before we get
too deep into this we're three dudes at
a garage like we're passionate about
this we've got runway the technology
works but if you're never going to be
cool with working with early stage on
such a strategic type of solution let's
vet that now
and what happened
they were like oh yeah i'm glad you
brought that up let's
why don't we partner on this right and
all of a sudden it changed the game it
built trust
and they were able to work together on
this because the big retailer was able
to understand the truth
yeah back to the sales history stuff
1919 a guy named arthur dunn
had a quote
that i freaking love and like i i use it
all the time and the quote is simply
this
if the truth won't sell it
don't sell it
right and so that's where it starts if
you're early stage you better be telling
these companies you're working with
where you are and and don't try to hide
the truth because that'll kill you later
yeah and for every day that goes on
you're burning cash aren't you so that's
number one and then the second piece if
you're early stage is to also be very
upfront about what
technology or what solution exists
and what doesn't what you're working on
what your roadmap is about what's
realistic again if the truth won't sell
it
don't sell it the more upfront you are
about that you're either building or
eroding trust with every interaction
you better be building it and right out
of the gate
yeah love those points um
yeah so i mean in terms of
being upfront about your company and
what you can and can't do i know i've
been
probably when i was a sales rep but i've
mostly work in tech companies todd
typically kind of web and digital
marketing companies so similar to what
you're talking about then and i know and
especially in my younger years whenever
and i've kind of learned the hard way
since but i know in my younger years
when whenever potential leads come in
whether they came inbound outbound
whatever um i always wanted to please
them i guess yeah so if they said look
um have you got this number of staff can
you do this feature can you build this
software can you partner with this can
you integrate with this i was always
trying to be a yes man um always like
yes yes yeah we can definitely do that
or while i look into that for you i'm
gonna try and sort that for you i'll see
if we can make that happen for you
whereas
like you say
it's if if you try and if you struggle
your way through and try and be
everything to everyone it eventually
comes back to bite you in the ass
whether that is killing all your team's
time taking all your budget
being a stress to yourself so you're
constantly working on their account
rather than your other customers as well
um i've certainly been the hard way so
getting back to your point being upfront
so going back to that tech company you
helped with just three guys in the
garage
and just saying look we're this this is
our setup um is that going to work for
you or is it going to be a problem do
you think that almost disarms the
prospect they're just thinking well
we're quite blown away because this this
is the first company that's been up
front rather than just saying yes to
everything and you think they're just
taken back a bit well yeah i mean i
think we all struggle with
differentiation right we try to
differentiate on our solutions our
pricing or go to market our
implementation whatever
i just think that for companies that
especially are in more highly
competitive spaces this is an incredible
opportunity to differentiate in the way
that you sell right so you add a
differentiator but you know to your
previous point even today like you know
i've always been in tech
um and you know been in tech leadership
and
teaching my reps to basically do what
you just talked about like we want to
please right and i found that even in my
new business so i wrote the book
i thought there was a 50 50 chance it
would suck because i'd never written a
book before but it
like it came out in 2018 it's sold more
in 2021 than 2018 so it just keeps going
up which is incredible to me but
right now i speak and i do workshops and
teach
i had a senior executive for a
multi-billion dollar company uh reach
out well actually the lead came in lower
level but they wanted me to connect with
the high-level person
this executive started the conversation
by telling me he was like here's what we
need todd we need x y and z right like
that's what we're looking for
turns out i don't do any of those three
right and so i just and i stopped them
after that i was like all right cool
like tell me more about that we vetted a
little bit and i was like listen i don't
do any of those things
um i probably could but i don't even
really enjoy doing those can i refer you
to somebody who does who's fantastic at
it yeah and the guy was like yeah that
would be awesome but wait what do you do
and i was like well here's the approach
that i take right you know my approach
is more workshop-based programmatic with
follow-through instead of like the
one-on-one roll up the sleeves
consulting stuff i don't really like
shooting
and he was like all right let's dig into
that at the end of the conversation
we're gonna do
what i do right and so i think that
that's the opportunity there is when
there's something you don't do again the
truth won't sell it don't sell it right
be honest but that offer to refer to
other people
now i am going to still pass along the
name of the people that do that because
i think it's still
it still was what they wanted and
there's still an opportunity and a place
for that there and that's going to
endear me to those people who are also
like
you got to think long game on so much of
this they come around when you're honest
and then that spreading the wealth
creates so many opportunities for you
just along your reputation and just
somebody that can be trustworthy and the
right partner for many companies
yeah and it's one of those things right
todd especially when you're a startup
you you're pro you might be unless
you're funded you might be scratching
around for cash you might be trying to
get any project job inquiry that you can
and win that deal
so i guess it puts you a bit of a tight
situation because something comes your
way whether it's a sales opportunity and
you might think well this deal could
really benefit us so you might be
thinking even though this is not our
sweet spot of a service or product we
can offer i'm so tempted to go for it
but i guess it's having that long-term
vision of thinking well
this is just going to hamstring us this
is going to take up all our time or
resources or we don't actually know how
to do it best so we might not serve the
customer well and then thinking well
look i can refer you to to my network to
someone that i know and here's where i
could potentially help you
well i'll tell you i mean on that when
you're early stage
yeah that's
like how do you sleep at night thinking
hey we got this great lead and i'm gonna
tell them we don't do that like is that
crazy right well here's a couple of
things to think about
when you are early stage and you start
getting inbound lead flow from companies
in areas that don't quite fit what you
do
have those conversations with companies
because it might mean hey there's an
opportunity that we're not thinking
about and our perspective of what the
market needs might not be right so i'm
not saying like just kill those right
out of the gate but i'm saying in
showcases like hey i would like to
investigate this a little bit more with
you because it's not quite what we do
but we've had a couple of other
companies that are asking for exactly
what you are and maybe there's an
opportunity for us to shift our roadmap
a little bit to be able to so it doesn't
mean walk away every time right it just
means
transparent embrace what you give up and
just be a honest human being it sells
better it will speed sales cycles but
most importantly in early stage every
minute that you're spending an
opportunity you know you're going to
lose
could be an opportunity for you to be
prospecting for those opportunities that
you
gonna win right so like it's not just
the
the cost of
moving slowly but it's also
missing out on better opportunities
well that's it they do say a healthy
pipeline is is almost the cure to
everything when it comes to generating
sales and like you said i've been guilty
of in the past i don't want to talk
about my flaws too much because plenty
of them but
i know again in my younger years used to
think when a and a warm kind of lead
came your way you think it's the be all
and end or if i don't win this deal i'm
going to sacrifice everything to bring
this in when you're wasting so much time
and energy um yes if it comes in
excellent but then you're not thinking
about the future like other other deals
i could get over the line other leads
that i could bring into the pipeline to
keep business a lot better so it's yeah
getting that long-term vision so with
that said todd are there any other um
stages i guess of business or the sales
cycle where transparency can be of use
to us well everywhere um like you'd
probably guess
can
let's uh talk for a minute about even
negotiations because i know that sounds
crazy but
um the most popular thing i teach is
called transparent negotiating
i'm gonna like for everybody listening
i'm gonna kind of lay it out for you
here i don't know about you
but i always felt like it was weird
that i needed a different personality to
negotiate than i did to sell like i
don't know if you felt that in your
career but it was like i i'm building
trust to the goal line the customer says
yes and then i subconsciously come back
to him with all right cool i'm going to
start lying to you now i'm not going to
tell you what a good deal is i'm going
to have to go to my boss for every
question like it's stupid it's like that
whole concept and then hey you know what
i'm i'm actually going to use the uh
techniques i learned from a former fbi
hostage negotiator to get us through the
goal i love that book
difference
of all time
but i think especially if you're in tech
sales
that like isn't that crazy that we're
learning about release of hostages from
a bank heist when we're talking about so
um i the the approach that i took
about 13 years ago accidentally when i
got stuck in the middle of a huge uh you
know four and a half million dollar deal
where
it was me against a whole team of
procurement people for a
big oil and gas company down in houston
yeah where i just played my cards face
up at the beginning of the conversation
partially because i was nervous and i
was like oh crap i was the vp of sales
and i was freaking out um but here's
here's how it works
is
transparency at the negotiation stage
is hey listen there's four things that
matter to us as an organization and they
matter to every for-profit company
they're the same for
uh the first thing is volume so how much
product technology services you commit
to the more the better for us
number two timing of cash so the faster
you pay that's a good thing for us
number three length of commitment the
longer you commit to our products
technology services better for us and
number four is the predictability or
when you sign
and so as we're having this conversation
those are the four things that drive our
business
now in that oil and gas example they
immediately were like fascinating we
need 30 off well what do you do
do you start playing ping pong with like
we can do 10 and like you get into this
whole thing where you're just giving
discounts away as charity to their
bottom line or could you go back to the
four and go hey listen maybe we've got a
path to get you pretty close commit to
more volume pay faster commit longer
let's mutually align around timing
so uh we'll pay you in the form of a
discount to help us predict our business
what happens is your customers start to
negotiate their own deals
trust is built to the goal line instead
of eroded
you get something of value for every
dollar you give away in the form of a
discount oh and your deals become more
predictable if you play that last lever
right
that's an example of transparency
in a way that
nobody's really been talking about and i
just think it's an incredible
opportunity that has long dividends too
because as customers stay buy more and
renew they remember the levers as a
matter of fact i had one buyer that when
he was trying to negotiate with me was
just like is it the f in levers again
like that's the effing levers but
you know they he hung up negotiated his
own deal called back they were going to
pay up front they're going to commit to
three years to get to the price he
wanted to and they're like cool that's
awesome right
there's opportunities everywhere in your
sales cycle to impart transparency it's
not just an upfront messaging but it's
pricing it's negotiating it's presenting
it's your post-sale customer success
everything along the path transparency
sells better than uh perfection but it
also keeps grows
and it leads better than perfection
which is the the subject of my next book
uh the transparent sales leader
interesting stuff so i want to throw a
spanner in the works todd um as i like
to do every now and then so in in that
example which i like um i've been in a
similar scenario actually nowhere near
as big a deal but
when uh me and probably about five or
six years ago me and uh my colleague
were trying to sell into a national bank
and it was just us two sitting in front
of a board of probably ten c-suite execs
i was bricking it and not to add to that
but our proposal that we loaded on our
laptop failed
not only did that fail their computer
system failed so we had no technology
and i was just sweating away um in the
end we did a similar thing really we
were just up front we said look the
technology's failed us let's have a
conversation around this um they kind of
laughed off and we got a deal done long
story short but yeah you probably felt
like you were at the same table instead
of vendor versus
it made it a lot more comfortable after
that initially it's so disarming right
out of the gate yeah yeah yeah but going
back to your point which which i like so
you're you're saying there's there's
four aspects and are you literally
saying when you um if someone brings up
the conversation of discount and you're
talking business do you literally say
that there's there's four points we need
to think about here do you say this to
them in terms of the volume the timing
of cash the length of commitment and
predictability is that is that something
you say to the prospect well yeah we say
it i mean i kind of um look at
negotiation a lot like running a
marathon like running a marathon is an
event but you wouldn't show up that
morning and go hey i heard there's a
marathon going on i want to run like
that would be insane you got to lay that
found i mean it works and it worked in
that oil and gas example but
my um suggestion is always when you're
first talking about price
make sure they understand what those
like what it's based on so you do your
initial price proposal and you go hey
here's your pricing and there's a couple
of core tenants to what this pricing is
based on number one is your volume
you've earned a discount based on the
volume commitment but it's also based on
the timing of cash which is upfront
annual net 30 and it's also based on a
minimum one-year commitment to the
products technology services right and
then as you get deeper you can impart
that fourth one which is hey
there's value to us and our organization
and being able to predict if we can
mutually align around when you think to
get this done we're willing to pay you
in the form of a discount to hold to it
right and so instead of it being the
fake expiring discount that everybody's
getting on all their retailer emails
right now it becomes a mutual alignment
where the customer has skin in the game
they're helping you predict
and as a result you don't end up with
the end of quarter hockey sticks like
you normally would
and you've got customers that are you
know getting deals done on their own
timeline
and you've paid them to hold to it like
that just that's a win for everybody
i really like that pricing summary
that's certainly something i skip past
if i'm showing pricing on presentations
or sales calls
it puts a bit of weight and a bit of
value behind the pricing as well from
what you've just shared there well yeah
i mean confidence is contagious right
like when somebody when you're talking
to somebody who's confident it actually
lights up that part of your brain a
little bit and you become more confident
the opposite is true too with fear right
when you're talking to somebody who's
anxious or fearful you start like your
brain starts to go
what's going on here right
when when you can deliver pricing and go
here's our price and here's what it's
based on that confidence becomes
contagious what i've found as i've
taught tons of people this is
their negotiation conversations are
changing instantly like you're not
getting pushback from customers like
they were before and partially is that
psychological element that the customers
are like
well all right cool that's what it's
based on great and like even with my
business
the levers are the same when i bought my
last car i used levers when i bought
vinyl flooring for upstairs here we i
mean
this piece of just established what
those are every company that is for
profit cares about how much you buy how
fast you pay how long you commit and
when you sign every company does that's
the four
they get it you get it it's easy to
you know
make a part of your conversations and
when the bullets start flying your
negotiation conversations will be
delivered with so much more confidence
awesome so back to the spanner that i
forgot to throw in the works um so in
your case there was a 30 request for
discount but
what if someone comes in with something
ridiculous that it's never going to work
todd if they say look i want half off
yeah
and then you just can't you can't look
at any of those four angles what is the
the transparent approach to that do we
just say no
there's two pieces yeah so i'll give you
part one
which is when that happens
um well actually let me give you part
two first
i have uh
recently
um come to the firm conclusion based on
the behavioral science
that we should always be setting price
expectations as part of transparency up
front
meaning if i'm selling a six-figure
solution to a four-figure buyer
one of us is in that wrong discussion
right and you want to know that now
versus at the negotiating table right
like that's crazy so for you to be able
to you know embrace transparency but
part of it is saying hey listen based on
my understanding of your environment and
your requirements the investment is
probably going to be between x and y
if that's going to be trouble like let's
address that right now instead of wait
until the end right so now you set an
expectation based on variables if the
variables change the price is going to
change of course but
that that part two means
that conversation that you're talking
about should only happen
if suddenly there's some executive in
the company that's like why don't we
just go with them they're cheap right um
so that's that's part two part one of
that is
to your uh point
yeah we say no but frame this way that
hey listen i understand
um
unfortunately we're not gonna be able to
get to that 50
price point however here's the four
things that drive our business happy to
have a conversation to see how close we
can get but if 50 is the number you're
looking for unfortunately we're gonna
have to part as friends
right and like and embrace it that way
that again is confidence building but
hopefully if you set the expectation up
front the right way you're not having
that conversation at the goal line
yeah so so set it early in conversations
before you ever get to discussing
product and details and their spec too
much so they already know what ground
you're on so hopefully you don't get any
nasty nasty scares later on in the sales
process well exactly and
unless you are purely an early stage
where you've got no customers and no
footing to stand on that your pricing is
what the market is paying for
um
you know you should be able to stand
pretty firmly by that again confidence
is contagious but like some of the
companies that i've been teaching are
like multi-billion dollar companies and
they're like what do we do when they
come at us with a 75 discount request
and i'm like you've got
400 000 customers paying that amount
like first of all have confidence that
your pricing is right but then when you
approach it that way it just it
customers get it they appreciate it and
yeah if they want to go
dink around with some crappy other
solution
they're more than likely to come back to
you because you handled that the right
way
awesome awesome um todd been a very good
conversation any final points to to wrap
up on before uh before everyone tuning
in starts putting transparency in the
mix well yeah i mean again i think the
bottom line here is
transparency as it turns out sells
better than pretending to be perfect
right it sells better it keeps better it
grows better and it leads better and as
arthur dunn said in 1919
if the truth won't sell it don't sell it
and now due to the proliferation of
reviews and feedback on every one of
your solutions every buyer can go
research you right now and find out the
truth
embrace it control it lead with it be
the vessel that delivers that
transparency and i'm telling you
that you will quickly find that your win
rates go up your cycle lengths
speed up considerably
you qualify in better you qualify out
faster the deals you're going to lose
anyway and then the most fun part is you
make it really hard on your competitors
the message against you so embrace it
try it
get comfortable with it and you're going
to see some magical results from it
top man thanks very much todd and with
that sir please do tell us more about
the book the upcoming book and where we
can learn more about yourself and
connect with you well thank you so uh
book number one was the transparency
sale and it really captures all of these
uh these concepts we've talked about a
whole chapter on negotiating in there
the new book that i'm writing that's
coming out in the spring is called the
transparent sales leader and it's
embracing all of these concepts creating
a structure for you as a sales leader
like so many of us as sales leaders we
get promoted and we're like all right
now what and we're basically a dog
chasing a car bumper down the street not
knowing where the car's going it gives
you the structure sitting on top of a
bed of transparency and the behavioral
science of intrinsic inspiration how to
motivate your teams
i'm hard not to find but toddcapone.com
or follow or connect with me on linkedin
let me know that you heard me here if
you connect with me on linkedin and i
share all kinds of nonsense in both
places good man as we all and we'll put
all of those links over on the show
notes at
businessgrowth.marketing and with that
thanks once again todd really enjoyed
the chat this is a blast thanks for
having me no worries man and as always
if you enjoyed today's episode do hit
that subscribe button we interview
business leaders each and every week to
supply actionable marketing and sales
tips to help you grow your revenue and
grow your business and with that we
should catch you on the next one